=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

pkgman-update - update packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pkgman> update [B<-v>|B<-vv>] [B<--test>] [B<--log>]
[B<--deps>] [B<--depsort>] [B<--force>] [B<--group>]
[B<--margs>=I<PKGMK_ARGS>|I<PKGMK_ALIASES>]
[B<--aargs>=I<PKGADD_ARGS>|I<PKGADD_ALIASES>]
[B<--ignore>=I<PKGNAME,PKGNAME,...>]
[B<--install-scripts>|[B<--pre-install>][B<--post-install>]]
I<PKGNAME>...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Update all packages in the listed order.  It looks in all
packages sources directories specified in F</etc/pkgman.conf> as
C<pkgsrcdir> directories.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose.

=item B<-vv>

Log to stdout the updating process.

=item B<--test>

Dry run, do not actually update anything.

=item B<--log>

Create a transaction log file.  It can be set globally for all
transactions (see C<writelog> in
L<pkgman.conf(5)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgman.conf.5.html>).

=item B<--deps>

Update all packages in the listed order including their
dependencies.

=item B<--depsort>

Sort updating by dependencies.

=item B<--force>

Skip installation of already installed package(s).  Just ignore the
package and install next in the listed order.  At the end of
installation procedure, all skipped packages will be in the report.

=item B<--group>

Update all packages in the listed order, but stop if
updating of one package fails.  This can be used to
update packages where I<package2> depends on I<package1>.

=item B<--margs>=I<PKGMK_ARGS>

Arguments to be passed to
L<pkgmk(8)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgmk.8.html>.

=item I<PKGMK_ALIASES>

=over

=item B<-fr>

Force build, implies "pkgmk -f" (same as B<--margs>=-f).

=item B<-um>

Update md5sum, implies "pkgmk -um" (same as B<--margs>=-um).

=item B<-im>

Ignore md5sum, implies "pkgmk -im" (same as B<--margs>=-im).

=item B<-uf>

Update footprint, implies "pkgmk -uf" (same as B<--margs>=-uf).

=item B<-if>

Ignore footprint, implies "pkgmk -if" (same as B<--margs>=-if).

=item B<-ns>

No stripping, implies "pkgmk -ns" (same as B<--margs>=-ns).

=item B<-kw>

Keep working directory, implies "pkgmk -kw" (same as B<--margs>=-kw).

=back

=item B<--aargs>=I<PKGADD_ARGS>

Arguments to be passed to
L<pkgadd(8)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgadd.8.html>.

=item I<PKGADD_ALIASES>

=over

=item B<-f>, B<-i>

Force install, implies "pkgadd -f" (same as B<--aargs>=-f).

=back

=item B<--ignore>=I<PKGNAME,PKGNAME,...>

Do not install those packages, even if they are listed as dependency.

=item B<--install-scripts>

Execute pre-install and post-install script if they are there.

=item B<--pre-install>

Execute pre-install script if it is there.

=item B<--post-install>

Execute post-install scripts if it is there.

=back

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
