=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

mkrootfs - make root filesystem for chroot installation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mkrootfs> [I<COMMAND>] [I<OPTIONS>]...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

mkrootfs builds customized root filesystem for chroot installation.

=head2 COMMANDS

=over 8

=item B<rootfs>

Prepare rootfs directory.

=item B<revdep>

Check rootfs directory for missing libraries.

=item B<tar>

Compress rootfs directory (prepare tarball).

=item B<sign>

Sign prepared tarball.

=back

=head2 OPTIONS

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

=over 8

=item B<-r>, B<--rootfs>=I<PATH>

Set path to rootfs directory.

=item B<-t>, B<--tar>=I<FILE>

Set path to compressed rootfs tarball.

=item B<-l>, B<--log>=I<FILE>

Set path to log file for L<pkgman(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgman.1.html>.

=item B<-p>, B<--packages>="I<PKG1> I<PKG2>..."

Set default packages to extract into the rootfs directory.

=item B<-c>, B<--config>=I<FILE>

Use alternative configuration file (default is F</etc/mkrootfs/config>).

=item B<-x>, B<--pkgmk-config>=I<FILE>

Use alternative L<pkgmk(8)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgmk.8.html>'s
configuration file (default is F</etc/pkgmk.conf>).

=item B<-y>, B<--pkgman-config>=I<FILE>

Use alternative
L<pkgman(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/pkgman.1.html>'s configuration
file (default is F</etc/pkgman.conf>).

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item F</etc/mkrootfs/config>

Global mkrootfs' configuration.  See
L<mkrootfs.config(5)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/mkrootfs.config.5>
for more information.

=item F</etc/pkgmk.conf>

Configuration file for invocated pkgmk.

=item F</etc/pkgman.conf>

Configuration file for invocated pkgman.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 8

=item "0"

No error occurred.

=item "1"

A general error has occurred.

=item "2"

An error occurred during building rootfs directory.

=item "3"

An error occurred during checking rootfs directory for missing
libraries.

=item "4"

An error occurred during compressing rootfs directory (preparing the
tarball).

=item "5"

An error occurred during signing prepared tarball.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<mkrootfs.config(5)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/mkrootfs.config.5.html>,
L<mkrootfs.release(7)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/mkrootfs.release.7.html>

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:tw=71:cc=72
# End of file.
