# See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

finddisowned - find files that are disowned by package manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<finddisowned> [I<OPTION>]...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<finddisowned> lists the files that are disowned by package manager.

In particular, finddisowned compares the package database with
contents of the directories described in F</etc/finddisowned.conf>.

B<finddisowned> does not compare the package database with the entire
file system, but only with files from directories described in
F</etc/finddisowned.conf> because the entire file system contains
directories such as F</home>, F</mnt> and even dynamic directories
like F</proc>, F</dev>, etc, the contents of which are definitely not
taken into account (and should not be) by package manager.

Feel free to adjust the configuration file (F</etc/finddisowned.conf>)
conform your needs.

=head1 OPTIONS

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options
too.

=over 8

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I<FILE>

Specify alternate configuration file.

=item B<-r>, B<--root> I<PATH>

Specify alternate root directory.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Print version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print help and exit.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item F</var/lib/pkg/db>

System package database.

=item F</etc/finddisowned.conf>

Contains a list of directories, the contents of which will be compared
with package database.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Alexandr Savca <alexandr.savca89@gmail.com>

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
L<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<finddeps-distmeta(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/finddeps-distmeta.1.html>,
L<finddeps-linked(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/finddeps-linked.1.html>,
L<findredundantdeps(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/findredundantdeps.1.html>,
L<finddisappeared(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/finddisappeared.1.html>

=cut

# vim:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
